# Google Cloud Datastore Sink

Description
-----------
This sink writes data to Google Cloud Datastore.
Datastore is a NoSQL document database built for automatic scaling and high performance.

Credentials
-----------
If the plugin is run on a Google Cloud Dataproc cluster, the service account key does not need to be
provided and can be set to `auto-detect`. Credentials will be automatically read from the cluster environment.

If the plugin is not run on a Dataproc cluster, the path to a service account key must be provided.
The service account key can be found on the Dashboard in the Cloud Platform Console.
Make sure the account key has permission to access Google Cloud Datastore.
The service account key file needs to be available on every node in your cluster and
must be readable by all users running the job.

Properties
----------
**Reference Name:** Name used to uniquely identify this sink for lineage, annotating metadata, etc.

**Namespace:** A namespace partitions entities into a subset of datastore. 
If not provided, `[default]` namespace will be used. 

**Kind:** The kind of an entity categorizes it for the purpose of Datastore queries. 
Equivalent to relational database table notion.

**Key Type:** Key is unique identifier assigned to the entity when it is created. Property defines what type of key 
will be added to the entity, commonly is needed to perform upserts to the Cloud Datastore. 
Can be one of four options: 

`Auto-generated key` - key will be generated by Datastore as _Numeric ID_.

`Custom name` - key will be provided by user. Supported types: _non-nullable STRING, INT or LONG_.

`Key literal` - key will be provided in Datastore key literal format including complete path with ancestors. 
Supported type: _non-nullable STRING in key literal format:_ `key(<kind>, <identifier>, <kind>, <identifier>, [...])` .
Example: `key(kind_name, 'stringId')` 

`URL-safe key` - key will be provided in the encoded form that can be used as part of a URL.
Supported type: _non-nullable STRING in URL-safe key format._

Note, if `Custom name`, `Key literal` or `URL-safe key` is selected, default key name (`__key__`) or its alias 
must be present in the schema. 

**Key Alias:** Allows to set user-friendly name for the key column which default name is `__key__`. 
Only applicable, if `Key Type` is set to `Custom name`, `Key literal` or `URL-safe key`. 
If `Key Type` is set to `Auto-generated key`, property must be empty. 

**Ancestor:** Ancestor identifies the common root entity in which the entities are grouped. 
Must be indicated in key literal format: `key(<kind>, <identifier>, <kind>, <identifier>, [...])`.
Example: `key(kind_1, 'stringId', kind_2, 100)` 

**Index Strategy** Index strategy defines which fields defined in schema will be indexed in Cloud Datastore. 
Can be one of three options: 

`All` - all fields will be indexed

`None` - none of fields will be indexed 

`Custom` - indexed fields will be provided in `Indexed Properties`

**Indexed Properties:** List of property names to be marked as indexed separated by comma.
Must be provided if `Index Strategy` is set to `Custom`, otherwise must be empty.

**Batch Size:** Maximum number of entities that can be passed in one batch to a Commit operation. 
Allowed min size: `1`, max size: `500`.

**Project ID**: Google Cloud Project ID, which uniquely identifies a project.
It can be found on the Dashboard in the Google Cloud Platform Console.

**Service Account File Path**: Path on the local file system of the service account key used for
authorization. Can be set to `auto-detect` when running on a Dataproc cluster.
When running on other clusters, the file must be present on every node in the cluster.

Example
-------
This example connects to Google Cloud Datastore and writes the data into Namespace *Music*, Kind *Rock*.
Keys will be auto-generated by Datastore. Only *Artist*, *Album*, *Year* fields will be indexed. 
Records will be written in a batch of 25.

    {
        "name": "Datastore",
         "type": "batchsink",
         "properties": {
            "referenceName": "RefDatastoreSink",
            "project": "auto-detect",
            "serviceFilePath": "auto-detect",
            "namespace": "Music",
            "kind": "Rock"
            "keyType": "Auto-generated key",
            "indexStrategy": "Custom",
            "indexedProperties": "Artist,Album,Year",
            "batchSize": "25"
         }
    }
          